# Limitations and Disadvantages of Autowiring
Autowiring works best when it is used consistently across a project. If autowiring is not used in general, it might be confusing to developers to use it to wire only one or two bean definitions.

Consider the limitations and disadvantages of autowiring:

Explicit dependencies in property and constructor-arg settings always override autowiring. You cannot autowire simple properties such as primitives, Strings, and Classes (and arrays of such simple properties). This limitation is by-design.

Autowiring is less exact than explicit wiring. Although, as noted in the earlier table, Spring is careful to avoid guessing in case of ambiguity that might have unexpected results. The relationships between your Spring-managed objects are no longer documented explicitly.

Wiring information may not be available to tools that may generate documentation from a Spring container.

Multiple bean definitions within the container may match the type specified by the setter method or constructor argument to be autowired. For arrays, collections, or Map instances, this is not necessarily a problem. However, for dependencies that expect a single value, this ambiguity is not arbitrarily resolved. If no unique bean definition is available, an exception is thrown.

In the latter scenario, you have several options:

Abandon autowiring in favor of explicit wiring.

Avoid autowiring for a bean definition by setting its autowire-candidate attributes to false, as described in the next section.

Designate a single bean definition as the primary candidate by setting the primary attribute of its <bean/> element to true.

Implement the more fine-grained control available with annotation-based configuration, as described in Annotation-based Container Configuration.