# 1.12.1. 基本概念:`@Bean`和`@Configuration`

Spring新的java配置支持中的核心构件是`@Configuration`注解的类和`@Bean`注解的方法。

`@Bean`注解用于指示方法实例化、配置和初始化要由Spring IoC容器管理的新对象。对于熟悉Spring的`<beans/>` XML配置的人来说，`@Bean`注释的作用与`<bean/>`元素相同。您可以对任何Spring `@Component`使用`@Bean`注解的方法。但是，它们最常与`@Configuration` bean一起使用。

使用`@Configuration`注解类表明其主要目的是作为bean定义的源。此外，`@Configuration`类允许通过调用同一类中的其他`@Bean`方法来定义bean之间的依赖关系。最简单的`@Configuration`类如下:

```java
@Configuration
public class AppConfig {

    @Bean
    public MyService myService() {
        return new MyServiceImpl();
    }
}
```

前面的`AppConfig`类等价于下面的Spring `<beans/>` XML:

```xml
<beans>
    <bean id="myService" class="com.acme.services.MyServiceImpl"/>
</beans>
```

<div style="background:#f1f1f1; padding:5px">
<h2 style="text-align:center;margin:0 auto;">完整的@Configuration和“精简”的@Bean模式?</h2>

When @Bean methods are declared within classes that are not annotated with @Configuration, they are referred to as being processed in a “lite” mode. Bean methods declared in a @Component or even in a plain old class are considered to be “lite”, with a different primary purpose of the containing class and a @Bean method being a sort of bonus there. For example, service components may expose management views to the container through an additional @Bean method on each applicable component class. In such scenarios, @Bean methods are a general-purpose factory method mechanism.

Unlike full @Configuration, lite @Bean methods cannot declare inter-bean dependencies. Instead, they operate on their containing component’s internal state and, optionally, on arguments that they may declare. Such a @Bean method should therefore not invoke other @Bean methods. Each such method is literally only a factory method for a particular bean reference, without any special runtime semantics. The positive side-effect here is that no CGLIB subclassing has to be applied at runtime, so there are no limitations in terms of class design (that is, the containing class may be final and so forth).

In common scenarios, @Bean methods are to be declared within @Configuration classes, ensuring that “full” mode is always used and that cross-method references therefore get redirected to the container’s lifecycle management. This prevents the same @Bean method from accidentally being invoked through a regular Java call, which helps to reduce subtle bugs that can be hard to track down when operating in “lite” mode.
</div>

The @Bean and @Configuration annotations are discussed in depth in the following sections. First, however, we cover the various ways of creating a spring container using by Java-based configuration.