# 1.13.2. `PropertySource`抽象

Spring’s Environment abstraction provides search operations over a configurable hierarchy of property sources. Consider the following listing:

JavaKotlin
ApplicationContext ctx = new GenericApplicationContext();
Environment env = ctx.getEnvironment();
boolean containsMyProperty = env.containsProperty("my-property");
System.out.println("Does my environment contain the 'my-property' property? " + containsMyProperty);
In the preceding snippet, we see a high-level way of asking Spring whether the my-property property is defined for the current environment. To answer this question, the Environment object performs a search over a set of PropertySource objects. A PropertySource is a simple abstraction over any source of key-value pairs, and Spring’s StandardEnvironment is configured with two PropertySource objects — one representing the set of JVM system properties (System.getProperties()) and one representing the set of system environment variables (System.getenv()).

These default property sources are present for StandardEnvironment, for use in standalone applications. StandardServletEnvironment is populated with additional default property sources including servlet config and servlet context parameters. It can optionally enable a JndiPropertySource. See the javadoc for details.
Concretely, when you use the StandardEnvironment, the call to env.containsProperty("my-property") returns true if a my-property system property or my-property environment variable is present at runtime.

The search performed is hierarchical. By default, system properties have precedence over environment variables. So, if the my-property property happens to be set in both places during a call to env.getProperty("my-property"), the system property value “wins” and is returned. Note that property values are not merged but rather completely overridden by a preceding entry.

For a common StandardServletEnvironment, the full hierarchy is as follows, with the highest-precedence entries at the top:

ServletConfig parameters (if applicable — for example, in case of a DispatcherServlet context)

ServletContext parameters (web.xml context-param entries)

JNDI environment variables (java:comp/env/ entries)

JVM system properties (-D command-line arguments)

JVM system environment (operating system environment variables)

Most importantly, the entire mechanism is configurable. Perhaps you have a custom source of properties that you want to integrate into this search. To do so, implement and instantiate your own PropertySource and add it to the set of PropertySources for the current Environment. The following example shows how to do so:

JavaKotlin
ConfigurableApplicationContext ctx = new GenericApplicationContext();
MutablePropertySources sources = ctx.getEnvironment().getPropertySources();
sources.addFirst(new MyPropertySource());
In the preceding code, MyPropertySource has been added with highest precedence in the search. If it contains a my-property property, the property is detected and returned, in favor of any my-property property in any other PropertySource. The MutablePropertySources API exposes a number of methods that allow for precise manipulation of the set of property sources.